README.md, before:

# gog - Go Overlay Git

Link files to Git repositories

- `gog` can be used to manage "dotfiles" in `${HOME}`, but it can also manage links to files elsewhere on the filesystem
- `gog` supports multiple git repositories, which can be useful to separate personal and work files

## Installation

### Pre-compiled binary

Download one of the pre-compiled binaries from the
[releases page](https://github.com/andornaut/gog/releases), and then move it onto
your path: `chmod +x gog-linux-amd64 && sudo mv gog-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/gog`

### Compile from source

Install dependencies:

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)


```bash
git clone https://github.com/andornaut/gog.git
cd gog
make install
```

## Getting started

```bash
# Clone a git repository and add a file to it
gog manage add dotfiles https://example.com/user/dotfiles.git
gog add ~/.config/foorc

# Gog moved `~/.config/foorc` into the default git repository ("dotfiles") and
# then created a symlink to it at its original location 
ls -l ~/.config/foorc | awk '{print $9,$10,$11}'
> /home/example/.config/foorc -> /home/example/.local/share/gog/dotfiles/$HOME/.config/foorc

# Commit and push the changeset to make it available from elsewhere
gog git commit -am 'Add foo config'
gog git push

# Login to a remote machine and initialize the same git repository as above
ssh remote@example.com
gog manage add dotfiles https://example.com/user/dotfiles.git

gog apply

# Gog linked `~/.config/foorc` as above, while preserving any preexisting file at
# that location as ~/.config/.foorc.gog`
ls -l ~/.config/foorc | awk '{print $9,$10,$11}'
> /home/example/.config/foorc -> /home/example/.local/share/gog/dotfiles/$HOME/.config/foorc
```

## Usage

`gog --help`

```
Link files to Git repositories

Usage:
  gog [command]

Available Commands:
  add         Add files or directories to a repository
  apply       Link a repository's contents to the filesystem
  git         Run a git command in a repository's directory
  help        Help about any command
  manage      Manage repositories
  remove      Remove files or directories from a repository

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for gog
  -r, --repository string   name of repository

Use "gog [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

`gog manage --help`

```
Manage repositories

Usage:
  gog manage [command]

Available Commands:
  add         Add a git repository
  get-default Print the name of the default repository
  list        Print the names of all repositories
  remove      Remove a repository

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for repository

Use "gog manage [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

`gog add --help`

```
Add files or directories to a repository

Usage:
  gog add [paths...]

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for add
  -r, --repository string   name of repository to add to
```

`gog apply --help`

```
Link a repository's contents to the filesystem

Usage:
  gog apply

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for apply
  -r, --repository string   name of repository to apply
```

### Notes

#### `gog add`

If any of the path arguments to `gog add` begin with the current user's home
directory, then this prefix is replaced with an escaped `\${HOME}` path
component, and then the `${HOME}` variable is expanded when `gog apply` is run.

#### `gog apply`

`gog apply` operates on a single repository at a time, but you can apply
multiple repositories - even if they contain partially overlapping files.

```bash
for repoName in $(gog manage list | sort -r); do
  gog --repository ${repoName} apply
done
```

## Configuration

You can use environment variables to customize some settings.

Environment variable | Description
---|---
GOG_DEFAULT_REPOSITORY_NAME | The repository to use when `--repository NAME` is not specified (default: the first directory in `${HOME}/.local/share/gog`)
GOG_HOME | The directory where gog stores its files (default: `${HOME}/.local/share/gog`)

## Developing

See the [Makefile](./Makefile).

Commit message:

Support GOG_IGNORE_FILES_REGEX and GOG_DO_NOT_CREATE_BACKUPS

README.md, after:

# gog - Go Overlay Git

Link files to Git repositories

- `gog` can be used to manage "dotfiles" in `${HOME}`, but it can also manage links to files elsewhere on the filesystem
- `gog` supports multiple git repositories, which can be useful to separate personal and work files

## Installation

### Pre-compiled binary

Download one of the pre-compiled binaries from the
[releases page](https://github.com/andornaut/gog/releases), and then move it onto
your path: `chmod +x gog-linux-amd64 && sudo mv gog-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/gog`

### Compile from source

Install dependencies:

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/andornaut/gog.git
cd gog
make install
```

## Getting started

```bash
# Clone a git repository and add a file to it
gog manage add dotfiles https://example.com/user/dotfiles.git
gog add ~/.config/foorc

# Gog moved `~/.config/foorc` into the default git repository ("dotfiles") and
# then created a symlink to it at its original location
ls -l ~/.config/foorc | awk '{print $9,$10,$11}'
> /home/example/.config/foorc -> /home/example/.local/share/gog/dotfiles/$HOME/.config/foorc

# Commit and push the changeset to make it available from elsewhere
gog git commit -am 'Add foo config'
gog git push

# Login to a remote machine and initialize the same git repository as above
ssh remote@example.com
gog manage add dotfiles https://example.com/user/dotfiles.git

gog apply

# Gog linked `~/.config/foorc` as above, while preserving any preexisting file at
# that location as ~/.config/.foorc.gog`
ls -l ~/.config/foorc | awk '{print $9,$10,$11}'
> /home/example/.config/foorc -> /home/example/.local/share/gog/dotfiles/$HOME/.config/foorc
```

## Usage

`gog --help`

```
Link files to Git repositories

Usage:
  gog [command]

Available Commands:
  add         Add files or directories to a repository
  apply       Link a repository's contents to the filesystem
  git         Run a git command in a repository's directory
  help        Help about any command
  manage      Manage repositories
  remove      Remove files or directories from a repository

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for gog
  -r, --repository string   name of repository

Use "gog [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

`gog manage --help`

```
Manage repositories

Usage:
  gog manage [command]

Available Commands:
  add         Add a git repository
  get-default Print the name of the default repository
  list        Print the names of all repositories
  remove      Remove a repository

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for repository

Use "gog manage [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

`gog add --help`

```
Add files or directories to a repository

Usage:
  gog add [paths...]

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for add
  -r, --repository string   name of repository to add to
```

`gog apply --help`

```
Link a repository's contents to the filesystem

Usage:
  gog apply

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for apply
  -r, --repository string   name of repository to apply
```

### Notes

#### `gog add`

If any of the path arguments to `gog add` begin with the current user's home
directory, then this prefix is replaced with an escaped `\${HOME}` path
component, and then the `${HOME}` variable is expanded when `gog apply` is run.

#### `gog apply`

`gog apply` operates on a single repository at a time, but you can apply
multiple repositories - even if they contain partially overlapping files.

```bash
for repoName in $(gog manage list | sort -r); do
  gog --repository ${repoName} apply
done
```

## Configuration

You can use environment variables to customize some settings.

Environment variable | Description
---|---
GOG_DEFAULT_REPOSITORY_NAME | The repository to use when `--repository NAME` is not specified (default: the first directory in `${HOME}/.local/share/gog`)
GOG_DO_NOT_CREATE_BACKUPS | Do not create .gog backup files
GOG_HOME | The directory where gog stores its files (default: `${HOME}/.local/share/gog`)
GOG_IGNORE_FILES_REGEX | Do not link repository-relative file paths that match this regular expression

## Developing

See the [Makefile](./Makefile).
